# Homework - Analysis of Diabetes Dataset in R
Homework of Data Analysis Course

This analysis is based on the paper “An Attempt to Define the Nature of Chemical Diabetes Using a Multidimensional Analysis” (1979) by G. M. Reaven and R. G. Miller published on Diabetologia - January 1979, Volume 16.
The authors of the paper analyzed the relationship between chemical diabetes and overt diabetes in 145 nonobese adult, theirs glucose intolerance, insulin response to oral glucose, and insulin resistance. The same authors previously published another paper which described the relationship between the plasma glucose and insulin responses to an oral glucose load in normal subjects and patients with varying degrees of hyperglycaemia and found that in people with less good tolerance, higher accompanying insulin concentrations suggested that glucose removal was impaired in these patients; and that greater amounts of insulin were secreted in an effort to maintain glucose homeostasis. In people with the highest levels of blood glucose, hyperglycaemia did not elicit a significant increase in absolute insulin response.
Finally, in patients with the most severe hyperglycaemia, absolute insulin concentrations were low, suggesting a primary impairment of insulin secretion. Although the existence of this relationship has been subsequently confirmed, its significance remains unclear.
This would suggest that within an individual increasing the glycaemic stimulus will lead to an increase in the insulin response, but only up to a certain point. Alternatively, the relationship described could result from the fact that different patients have different causes for their hyperglycaemia.
They have attempted to gain some insight into the relationship that exists between patients currently being diagnosed as diabetic on the basis of three metabolic variables: glycaemic response to a glucose challenge, insulin response to a glucose challenge, and insulin sensitivity (Diabetologia - Volume 16, January 1979).

The analysis is divided into four main sections: this first introductory section which describes the required steps to replicate the analysis and the dataset structure; in the second section we will analyze each variable of the dataset; in the third section due to the impossibility to compute mixture models on single variables we will perform a univariate analysis for each level of the Class variable dividing the subjects into three groups; in the fourth section we will perform a multivariate analysis taking into consideration the Principal Component Analysis and Cluster Analysis, at the end of the section we will take into consideration the limits of the Cluster Analysis and then perform a Model Based Clustering.
